*Trudeau unveils new net-zero emissions plan to meet climate change targets.*

Environment and Climate Change Minister Jonathan Wilkinson tabled new legislation today that would force current and future federal governments to set binding climate targets to get Canada to net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.

The bill, if passed, would require the federal government to set five-year interim emissions reduction targets over the next 30 years to ensure progress toward that ambitious goal.

The legislation, C-12, fulfils a Liberal election promise to be more aggressive at cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, and to get Canada to net-zero emissions by 2050.

Reaching "net-zero" by 2050 would mean that emissions produced 30 years from now would be fully absorbed through actions that scrub carbon from the atmosphere — such as planting trees — or technology, such as carbon-capture and storage systems. The Liberals have promised to plant two billion trees.

"Climate change remains one of the greatest challenges of our times," Prime Minister Justin Trudeau told reporters Thursday.

"Just like with COVID-19, ignoring the risks of climate change isn't an option. That approach would only make the costs higher and the long-term consequences worse. Canadians have been clear — they want climate action now."

Trudeau described the bill as an accountability framework that will "ensure we reach this net-zero goal in a way that gives Canadians confidence."

Wilkinson's bill doesn't set out exactly how the federal government should go about reducing emissions — it does not mandate further increases to the carbon tax, for example. It simply stipulates that Ottawa must set a goal and work to achieve it through measures that are deemed effective.

The legislation calls for the creation of an outside 15-member advisory board — composed of climate experts, scientists and Indigenous representatives, among others — which would provide advice to the minister on setting targets and the best "sectoral strategies" for achieving net-zero. By law, the minister would be obliged to consult with groups before setting targets.

The legislation also requires that the minister table a plan in Parliament outlining how Ottawa plans to meet those targets. The legislation does not stipulate what role the provinces and territories will play in this national emissions reduction plan.

The first emissions reduction target, and the plan to meet it, would be tabled nine months after the bill is passed through Parliament. That first target would be for the year 2030.

Environmental groups celebrated the government's push to enshrine the net-zero commitment into law — but raised red flags about the plan to make 2030 the first milestone year, saying binding targets should be implemented much sooner than that.

"To be effective, the legislation will need to prioritize immediate climate action by setting a 2025 target, and ensure that all the targets we set are as ambitious as possible. We will be looking to all federal parties in the upcoming weeks to work together to strengthen this bill," said Andrew Gage, a staff lawyer with West Coast Environment Law.

"This legislation is a significant step to put Canada on the course to achieve its emissions targets and sets up Canada to become a global leader. However, Ecojustice also believes that there is room for improvement on issues such as the lack of a 2025 target," said a spokesperson for the environmental advocacy group.

Canada's target, set by the former Conservative government in May 2015, is to reduce emissions by 30 per cent compared to 2005 levels by 2030.

Current policies — including the carbon tax, banning coal power plants and regulating methane emissions in the oil and gas industry — will only get Canada about two-thirds of the way there.

While the government describes this legislation as "legally binding," there would be no tangible penalty applied if the country fails to drive down emissions as promised.

The government would simply have to state publicly in Parliament that it failed to meet its goals. There would be no meaningful legal consequences if Ottawa falls short.

A future government also could simply repeal the law and do away with reporting obligations altogether.

Asked why the government failed to include any penalties to make the targets more meaningful, Trudeau said it will be up to voters to punish governments that fail to hit their marks.

"Ultimately, the accountability for government's actions or inaction is from Canadians themselves. We live in a democracy. Stephen Harper's inability to fight climate change responsibility was a big part of him losing power in 2015. Conservatives continue to fight against measures that combat climate change," Trudeau said.

"The consequences for a government that doesn't lead on climate change ... will be far greater than anything you can write into a legislation."

Green Party Leader Annamie Paul slammed the bill Thursday, calling it a major disappointment for climate activists who were expecting a much more ambitious plan.

She said without penalties — or clear targets in writing from the outset — it will be easy for future governments to duck accountability.

"After five years in power, and a record of unfulfilled emissions reductions commitments, the government has given us more smoke and mirrors. There is only talk of accountability about a plan that will be developed at some future date. That's not what we expected, that is not what we need," Paul told reporters.

"I'm confused as to why the government is yet again passing up on the chance of a lifetime to put Canada on a path to net zero by 2050. There are no targets and no specific actions designed to put Canada on a pathway to net zero. In short, there is no plan," she said.

Conservative MP Dan Albas, the party's environment critic, said Trudeau needs to come clean with Canadians about how much a dramatic reduction in emissions would cost.

"Justin Trudeau needs to be transparent with Canadians about his plan for achieving net zero. Canadians are worried that he plans to dramatically increase carbon taxes, and they are worried about the impact this will have on the cost of gas, groceries and home heating," he said in a statement.

The bill stipulates that the finance minister also will be required to prepare an annual report each year detailing "key measures that the federal public administration has taken to manage its financial risks and opportunities related to climate change," to ensure the bureaucracy itself is doing its part to drive down greenhouse gas emissions.

-John Paul Tasker, https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/net-zero-emissions-1.5807877

*Canadian youth sports groups are losing millions of dollars to fraud and theft*

For the Corner Brook Minor Hockey Association, it was like being on the receiving end of an open-ice body check.

It was in late March near the end of the 2018-19 season in Corner Brook, N.L., when league officials were informed they were thousands of dollars behind in payments for ice time.

By the time officials got to the bottom of things, it was discovered the organization was missing around $80,000.

An investigation by the RCMP led to the league's former treasurer being charged with six fraud-related offences.

"It was a shock. It was very unfortunate, especially when you have a small community and everyone's involved in hockey," said Darren Harvieux, the league's new treasurer and part of a group of volunteers who has worked to put the organization back on firm financial footing.

Harvieux says the arrest did nothing to repair damage caused by the alleged thefts.

"The money that went missing was money that came from parents, hard-working parents in the community," he said. "We are a small community and the biggest thing was really that people's money had gone missing — money they had thought was for the enjoyment of their children playing hockey."

And it's just one example of a common situation Canada-wide: adults in positions of trust stealing or allegedly stealing money from a youth sports organization that is left reeling. An investigation by CBC Sports reveals that in the last decade alone nearly $8 million has gone missing from dozens of sports leagues and associations across Canada.

The amount of money stolen ranges from a few thousand to millions of dollars, but the pattern in almost every case is similar: a theft is carried out by one person within the organization who is responsible for the league's finances.

Another example: around the same time as the Corner Brook incident but halfway across the country, it was emerging that a staggering amount of money had gone missing from the Ontario Minor Hockey Association.

The OMHA oversees 225 local associations and 28 leagues across the province, involving nearly 300,000 players, coaches, trainers and parents. According to court documents obtained by CBC Sports, the league's director of finance — a 16-year employee — stole nearly $2.4 million over six months "to support an online gambling and shopping addiction."

The theft is believed to be the largest amount of money ever stolen from a North American youth sports organization. It only came to light when the employee confessed to OMHA executive director Ian Taylor after she realized the association would be unable to make a large scheduled payment.

The woman subsequently pleaded guilty and is awaiting sentencing.

According to court documents, she had "sole access" to one of the league's secondary bank accounts. On 35 different days, she made 84 transactions from the OMHA's primary account to the secondary account. She then, according to documents, used the money to pay off personal credit card bills.

In most of these cases, the money is stolen over an extended period of time and is often used to fund a gambling or drug addiction or to buy luxury items.

For example, the man tasked with organizing athletic competitions for a large number of schools around London, Ont., stole almost a million dollars over nearly a decade in what the judge called an "egregious breach of trust."

At his trial, it was revealed much of the stolen money went to pay for home renovations, including "a saltwater pool and hot tub, retaining walls, interlocking pathways and related construction and significant expensive plantings." He received a three-year sentence.

The thefts tend not to be complicated affairs.

In 2012, the former treasurer of the Richmond Soccer Association in British Columbia was sentenced to two years in prison after being convicted of stealing more than $200,000 over five years. She simply wrote more than 200 cheques to herself and her husband.

In sentencing the woman, the judge wrote: "The Richmond Youth Soccer Association was not a sophisticated business entity with systems of checks and balances designed to protect its financial affairs. It is a volunteer organization and was highly dependent on the accused to act honestly with their money. The real victims were the thousands of young people who would have benefited greatly from the monies the accused stole."

The real victims were the thousands of young people who would have benefited greatly from the monies the accused stole.

    - Judge in sentencing treasurer who stole $200,000 in Richmond, B.C.

More recently, the treasurer of a different small hockey association in Newfoundland was sentenced to five months in jail after stealing more than $50,000 over two years. The accused wrote more than 35 cheques to herself to fuel cocaine and gambling addictions.

In a victim impact statement, the association told the court the theft left it "concerned about their ability to continue to operate minor hockey in this region. Parents are being asked to fund-raise over and above the usual level and there has been an additional financial burden placed on the families and community members, in general, as they are being asked to contribute to the association to keep the hockey program viable."

In our analysis, CBC Sports included only cases where criminal charges were laid or a civil action was launched to recoup stolen money.

But experts say the issue is likely much more prevalent because many cases, for a number of reasons, are never reported to police.

Erik Carrozza is a Philadelphia-area accountant who has documented dozens of similar stories across the United States. He is a longtime youth sports treasurer and founder of the Center for Fraud Prevention. Carrozza started the centre to help youth sports organizations implement prevention strategies to reduce the risk of theft.

WATCH | Why community sports organizations are vulnerable to fraud:
CBC Sports investigation finds youth sports groups are losing millions to fraud and theft
4 hours agoVideo
4:23
CBC Sports reporter Jamie Strashin speaks with Jacqueline Doorey about his latest investigation into fraud in youth sports organizations across Canada. 4:23

Carrozza says the volunteer boards of directors who run these organizations often attempt to deal with fraud internally to avoid their own embarrassment, as the boards are responsible for governance and oversight.

"They're actually reporting themselves and admitting their own shortcomings," he said. "That is not an easy thing for some people to do."

Carrozza also points to the so-called community factor, where the guilty party is often a well-known member of organization, has friends on the board and has multiple children who play in the league.

"[The organizations] are a little reluctant to blow up somebody's life and [their] family," said Carrozza, adding the cases that are reported usually follow a familiar script.

"You've got a brazen crime occurring in the sense that there's no attempt to cover it up. These are the people that are writing cheques out for themselves and it goes on for years," he said. "The reason why is the lack of oversight and governance.

"The treasurer isn't a sophisticated financial criminal. [They are thinking] I can just write a check to myself and nobody will notice."
Katie Misener says youth sports organizations are vulnerable to fraud for several reasons. (University of Waterloo)
Katie Misener, a professor at the University of Waterloo, examines fraud and theft at the youth sports level.

Misener says that at various points of the year — and especially around registration time — leagues could have hundreds of thousands of dollars flowing through their bank accounts.

She says a number of factors make these largely volunteer organizations vulnerable.

In many cases, a league's money is handled by a single volunteer with what Misener calls a "learned advantage," somebody who knows how the organization's finances work and how to manipulate them.

"We tend to trust the parents that are in these leadership roles within our sport clubs," Misener said. "They're great people and they contribute a lot of time and their own resources to those roles, helping kids be active and running the club.

"We don't tend to think that Joe down the street, who's the treasurer for a hockey club, might embezzle funds. But the reality is that it typically is a treasurer or a board member such as the president who have been the ones who have committed fraud."
Summary of cases since 2010

(Includes only cases involving criminal charges or civil suits.)

QUEBEC / MARITIMES

June 2018, Grand Bank, N.L.

Amount: $53,046.38. Organization: United Towns Minor Hockey Association. What happened: Treasurer convicted of one count of theft over $5,000, three counts of forgery. Sentenced to five months.

March 2019, Corner Brook, N.L.

Amount: $80,000 Organization: Corner Brook Minor Hockey Association. What happened: Former employee charged with six offences including theft and fraud over $5,000. Trial pending.

October 2019, Charlottetown, PEI

Amount: $10,000 Organization: Andrews Hockey Growth Programs What happened: Comptroller pleads guilty to fraud. Sentenced to 60 days.

October 2019, Gaspé, Que.

Amount: $60,000 Organization: Department of Recreation of Sainte-Anne-des-Monts. What happened: Official charged with misappropriation of funds over 10-year period.Trial ongoing.

January 2020, Baie Verte, N.L.

Amount: $90,000 Organization: Advocate Youth Services Cooperative. What happened: Employee charged with fraud, theft, forgery. Trial pending

MANITOBA / SASKATCHEWAN

March 2017, St. Andrews, Man.

Amount: $292,000 Organization: St. Andrews Community Club. What happened: Treasurer convicted of stealing after club alerted by unpaid hydro bills. Sentenced to 15 months.

June 2018, Winnipeg, Man.

Amount: $54,000 Organization: Winnipeg Minor Hockey Association. What happened: League sues former executive director for alleged fraud using association credit card. Stay of proceedings after accused declares bankruptcy.

September 2018, Estevan, Sask.

Amount: Est. $10,000 Organization: Estevan Youth Soccer Association. What happened: Treasurer pleads guilty to one count of theft over $5,000.

ONTARIO

March 2011, London, Ont.

Amount: $836,739.56 Organization: Thames Valley Region Athletic Association. What happened: Coordinator convicted of fraud over 10-year period. Sentenced to three years.

November 2011, Woodstock, Ont.

Amount: $45,000 Organization: Woodstock Wildcats Girls Hockey Association. What happened: Treasurer pleads guilty. Sentenced to one month house arrest.

January 2012, Pickering, Ont.

Amount: $725,000 Organization: Pickering Minor Hockey Association. What happened: In civil proceeding, former treasurer agrees to repay amount taken over 10-year period. No criminal charges.

July 2013, Brock, Ont.

Amount: $33,000 Organization: Brock Minor Hockey Association. What happened: League treasurer disappears with money. Found by police, but no charges laid after most of funds repaid.

October 2017, Cornwall, Ont.

Amount: $13,000 Organization: Cornwall Minor Hockey Association. What happened: President found guilty of fraud in excess of $5,000 between 2011-15. Sentenced to six months.

May 2019, Clarington, Ont.

Amount: $25,000 Organization: Clarington Minor Hockey Association. What happened: Man charged with breach of trust and theft over $5,000. Trial pending.

June 2019, Newmarket, Ont.

Amount: $2.4 million Organization: Ontario Minor Hockey Association. What happened: Director of finance pleads guilty to stealing funds over a six-month period. Sentence pending.

BRITISH COLUMBIA

October 2010, Vancouver, B.C.

Amount: $400,000 Organization:  Softball B.C. What happened: Accountant pleads guilty to stealing funds. Sentenced to three years in prison.

January 2012, Richmond, B.C.

Amount: $204,070 Organization:  Richmond Youth Soccer Association. What happened: Treasurer found guilty of embezzling at least $204,070 between 1998-2003. Sentenced to two years.

June 2012, Delta, B.C.

Amount: $82,000 Organization: North Delta Minor Hockey Association. What happened: Former treasurer and his wife sued for allegedly stealing $82,000.

July 2016, Vancouver, B.C.

Amount: $368,000 Organization: Gorge Soccer Association. What Happened: President commits suicide after being investigated for stealing funds.

June 2017, Penticton, B.C.

Amount: $2,000 Organization: Penticton Minor Hockey Association. What happened: Official pleads guilty to one count of fraud under $5,000 for stealing money that was supposed to pay referees aged 11-17. Given six-month conditional sentence.

October 2017, Penticton, B.C.

Amount: $184,000 Organization: Okanagan Elite Hockey Association. What happened: Man found guilty of defrauding parents of money for team trip to Europe. Sentenced to two years house arrest.

May 2018, Penticton, B.C.

Amount: $315,000 Organization: Penticton Minor Hockey Association. What happened: Suspect dies during course of five-year RCMP investigation. No charges laid. League suing suspect's estate.

September 2019, Vernon, B.C.

Amount: $10,000 Organization: Williams Lake Chapter of Special Olympics Society. What happened:Former treasurer pleads guilty to one count of fraud over $5,000. Given six-month conditional sentence.

January 2020, Chilliwack, B.C.

Amount: $20,000 Organization: Chilliwack Giants Football Club. What happened: Treasurer charged with one count of theft over $5,000. Trial pending.

August 2020, Coquitlam, B.C.
Jamie Strashin https://www.cbc.ca/sports/fraud-canadian-youth-sports-robbed-8-million-past-decade-1.5796422

*Trudeau to address Canadians on COVID-19 as Tam releases sobering new projections*

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is set to address Canadians today as COVID-19 cases climb across the country and provinces impose new restrictions to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus.

Chief Public Health Officer Dr. Theresa Tam discussed the latest modelling with detailed projections on new infections during a news conference Friday morning.

CBC reported Thursday that COVID-19 could reach 60,000 cases a day by the end of December if Canadians increase their current level of contact with other people, according to modelling charts prepared by the Public Health Agency of Canada and seen by CBC News.

That number could be limited to 20,000 a day if Canadians maintain their current number of personal contacts, according to PHAC.

But to drive that number under 10,000 cases a day by the end of the year, Canadians would need to limit their interactions to essential activities while maintaining physical distancing and adhering to other public health guidelines.

"We are not on a good trajectory," Tam said Friday. "I think across the board, across Canada, we have to say the time is now, with urgency, that we limit contacts. However that is being done at the local level, that is the underlying principle. Keep those contacts down by restrictions and of course each individual doing their work."
'This won't be forever'

Tam said the caseload has already surpassed the peak during the first wave of the virus, and it is spreading across a wider geographic area of Canada.

She said the rise in infections is causing a strain on hospitals and health-care systems, pushing some to capacity and leading to the postponement of other medical procedures.

Tam asked people to take precautions during the upcoming holiday season by following public health guidelines, limiting outings and keeping in-person activities to household members where possible.

"This won't be forever. Recently there has been some really good news about vaccine development. Keep this beacon of hope in mind as we all come together, apart, to do what is needed," she said. "Right now every effort you make as an individual matters."

Health Minister Patty Hajdu also urged vigilance.

"The more people who get this disease, the harder it is to get it under control," she said.

Hajdu said the federal government has been working to support the provinces and territories with "surge demands" with necessary supplies such as personal protective equipment (PPE) and ventilators. But she said front-line workers, pharmacy workers and personal support workers are under strain after working flat out for several months.

"That is a limiting factor for all of us," she said.
More, and larger, outbreaks

Trudeau and opposition leaders met with Tam and her deputy Dr. Howard Njoo late Thursday to discuss the new modelling.

Trudeau will address Canadians Friday about the worsening situation at 11:30 a.m. ET from outside Rideau Cottage, returning to the doorstep media conferences that characterized the early days of the pandemic.

The modelling predicts that the number of COVID-19 deaths could rise from the current level of slightly more than 11,100 to just more than 12,100 by the end of the month if Canadians maintain their current level of contact with other people.

The modelling says that there are more outbreaks now, those outbreaks are larger — more than 50 cases each — and they are affecting long-term care homes.

It also says that Indigenous communities and schools are also seeing rising caseloads and that the situation is set to get worse in all regions except the Atlantic provinces and parts of the North unless action is taken.

https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/covid19-projections-trudeau-tam-1.5809429

*Matthew Raymond not criminally responsible for killing 2 constables, 2 civilians*

Raymond will be held in custody until a tribunal finds he's no longer a threat to the public

A jury has found Matthew Raymond not criminally responsible for the shooting deaths of four Fredericton residents two years ago.

The jury returned the verdict Friday morning after deliberating for about 25 hours over four days.

Raymond, 50, had admitted to shooting and killing Donnie Robichaud and Bobbie Lee Wright from his storage room window at 237 Brookside Dr., then Fredericton Const. Sara Burns and Const. Robb Costello when they responded to calls of shots fired on Aug. 10, 2018.

Family members of the victims sobbed when the verdict was read.

Justice Larry Landry cautioned people against outbursts. A relative of Burns, wearing a "#FrederictonStrong" shirt, ran out of the courtroom in tears

Wearing a navy shirt and black pants, Raymond wiped away tears and nodded.

Raymond's mother, Shirley Raymond, also wiped tears.

Fredericton Police Force Chief Roger Brown sent a statement a few minutes after the verdict. He thanked the jury for their time.

"[I] am fully aware that no-one has emerged from this situation unscarred," he said in the statement. "It is important that we respect the decision that has been passed down as we move forward."

Case plagued by delays

As a witness at his own trial, Raymond testified he believed he was shooting demons, not humans, coming to kill him after he became convinced the end times had come.

Two psychiatrists testified they diagnosed him with schizophrenia, and a third diagnosed him with delusional disorder.

The verdict came more than two years after the shooting sent shockwaves through the province. The case has been plagued by delays since the beginning because of fitness to stand trial issues and COVID-19 court closures.

The trial spanned more than 10 weeks and had 44 witnesses, including police officers, nurses, psychiatrists, Raymond himself and members of his family.

The jury was the first chosen in Canada since the COVID-19 pandemic was declared.

Justice Larry Landry thanked the 11 jurors for their service and excused them for the final time.

The Crown argued Raymond's delusions weren't so intense that he didn't know what he was doing or that it was wrong. The Crown pointed out Raymond didn't shoot a couple standing by Robichaud's body, that he modified his rifle to double the amount of ammunition it could hold, he barricaded his door, and he shot the victims in the head and chest, which shows intent to kill.
Raymond thought victims were demons

Despite his admission that he killed the four victims, the defence argued he was not criminally responsible because his schizophrenia stopped him from knowing what he was doing or that it was wrong.

He testified he believed he was shooting demons coming to kill him, not humans.

Before the jury began deliberating, Landry told them finding Raymond not criminally responsible does not mean he will be released.

He said Raymond will remain in jail until a hearing is held to determine his supervision and treatment. By law, the New Brunswick Review Board or a judge must hold a hearing within 45 days of the verdict.

At the hearing, the judge or board must consider the safety of the public, Raymond's mental condition and his integration into society to decide whether he's a significant threat to public safety. Family members of the victims will also have a chance to read victim impact statements.

Justice Landry has set a tentative date for the hearing for Dec. 11 at 9:30 a.m.

Medications required during trial

Landry said Raymond will only be released if and when the review board decides he's no longer a significant threat to the public.

Raymond had already been receiving mandatory antipsychotic medication injections months before and during the trial.

He testified he only stopped believing in demons last month, and still believed he heard a child outside his window say "Come out and play, baby," which he interpreted as a sign of Armageddon beginning.

Hadeel Ibrahim · CBC News · Posted: Nov 20, 2020 10:37 AM AT

https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/new-brunswick/matthew-raymond-fredericton-shooting-1.5806466

*Tighter COVID-19 restrictions loom for Toronto, Peel, York*

Ontario Premier Doug Ford signalled decision coming Friday could include lockdown in hotspots

Ontario Premier Doug Ford is poised to announce Friday whether Toronto, Peel Region and York Region will face stricter COVID-19 measures — or even a lockdown — as the count of new coronavirus cases continues its upward climb.

Ford's cabinet meets each Friday to consider recommendations from Ontario's Chief Medical Officer of Health Dr. David Williams on changing the colour-coded restriction levels for each public health unit.

    Ford is scheduled to make the announcement at a news conference beginning at 3:30 p.m. at Queen's Park. You can watch it live on cbc.ca/toronto.

As the week unfolded, Ford sent clear signals that stronger measures are looming for the three hardest-hit regions, all of which are currently in the red zone, one step short of lockdown.

"We're looking at lockdown, if this continues, in Peel and Toronto and York," Ford said Wednesday. "I keep seeing the numbers climb. We have to stop this."

"We have some difficult but necessary decisions to make," Ford said during his daily COVID-19 briefing Thursday.  "Tomorrow, our government will release further public health restrictions. As it's looking, these measures, they will have to be tough in the hardest-hit areas."

Peel is by far the hardest hit region in the province, currently seeing 195 new cases weekly per 100,000 population — nearly five times higher than the province's threshold of 40 for red-zone restrictions.

Toronto (with 112 new cases weekly per 100,000 population) and York Region (with 91) have also seen steady growth in COVID-19 infections since early September, despite the imposition of stricter pandemic measures along the way.

    Ford says 'tough' new measures coming to COVID-19 hot spots as Ontario reports 1,210 new cases

    150 COVID-19 patients now in Ontario ICUs, hitting key threshold to impact other procedures

The province has not specified the infection rate threshold that would trigger a lockdown, nor has it stated exactly what would get locked down. When asked Thursday to describe the scale of the restrictions being considered, both Ford and Williams declined to reveal any specifics.

"As always, what we're trying to do is to make sure we keep our numbers plateauing and coming down, and especially in the areas of rapid growth," said Williams.

While Ford has been using the L-word, it's far from certain that Peel, Toronto, and York will face the kind of lockdown Ontario ordered in March — with schools and all but essential businesses closed.

All the signs from Ford suggest he won't be announcing plans to close schools in the hot zones.

"I've heard from numerous, numerous doctors, not to mention our health table [of medical advisers], that the safest place for our children right now is actually in the schools," Ford said Thursday.

He also hinted that tackling transmission of COVID-19 in workplaces and social gatherings would be preferable to ordering a lockdown.

"We can't afford to have workplaces that are unsafe or host large gatherings or parties because this virus spreads like wildfire," said Ford. "It hurts your customers, it hurts your workers, and it hurts your community."

Local officials in the hardest-hit areas have voiced support for stricter measures, but have stopped short of calling for a full-scale lockdown.

"I do think further closures and restrictions are warranted at this time," Peel's Medical Officer of Health Dr. Lawrence Loh told CBC News Network on Thursday.

Loh said he supports short-term measures that would "reduce the number of contacts and interactions" among people in the region, which includes the cities of Mississauga and Brampton.

Toronto Mayor John Tory is looking to the province to strengthen prevention measures.

"I support doing everything we can, based on public health advice, to stop the spread of COVID-19 in our city," Tory said Wednesday.

    It's impossible for Ontario to hit least-restrictive green zone by Christmas, experts say

York's medical officer of health and with the regional municipality's chair wrote to Ford on Thursday urging him not to impose a lockdown on the region, which includes Markham, Vaughan and other cities north of Toronto.

"We are confident we can continue to protect the health and well-being of residents and bring our case numbers down," said the joint letter from Dr. Karim Kurji and Wayne Emmerson.

The letter committed to increased enforcement "in areas where we have issues with overcrowding and lack of physical distancing, including malls, big box outlets, grocery stores and banquet halls."

All this comes with Ontario reporting hospitalization and death rates from COVID-19 higher than at anytime since June.

An internal report from Critical Care Services Ontario, obtained by CBC Toronto on Thursday, shows 150 patients with COVID-19 in hospital intensive care units. Health officials have said scheduled surgeries and procedures will likely need to be cancelled to keep space available in the ICUs once the number of COVID-19 patients exceeds 150.

So far this month, 307 people with COVID-19 have died, according to provincial figures.

    Lockdown may be looming for Ontario — but what that looks like isn't clear

If the province does resort to a form of lockdown, NDP Leader Andrea Horwath is calling on the government to provide financial support to small businesses for costs such as rent and payroll.

She's also renewed her call for a legislated minimum number of paid sick days for all Ontario workers, a measure that Ford's government scrapped in 2018, shortly after taking power.

Changes could also be announced Friday to the restriction levels in other public health units around Ontario, depending on whether their infection rates have risen or fallen.

    The Region of Waterloo, currently under orange zone restrictions, could end up in the red zone as its weekly infection rate per 100,000 residents has reached 63, according to the latest figures from Public Health Ontario.
    Durham Region, also in orange, is showing a weekly infection rate approaching 53, which exceeds the threshold for the red zone.
    Among the seven public health units currently under yellow zone restrictions, the highest infection rate is in Huron-Perth (43), making it the most likely candidate for stricter measures.

Mike Crawley · CBC News · Posted: Nov 20, 2020 4:00 AM ET

https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/toronto/ontario-covid-cases-lockdown-doug-ford-toronto-peel-york-1.5808008

*Ottawa prepares for an unprecedented vaccination campaign*

It is the final leg of a marathon that began when Chinese scientists released genetic information about the COVID-19 genome back in early January, allowing work to begin on vaccines.

Like everything involving COVID-19, the campaign to vaccinate people against it is coming at breakneck speed, has huge implications, and is full of potential road bumps.

This week, immunization became more real when Health Minister Christine Elliott announced that Ontario expects to receive 2.4 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna in the first quarter of 2021, just weeks away. Other vaccines are likely coming soon.

The effort to immunize Canadians in the midst of a devastating global pandemic is unprecedented. And, even if high priority groups get immunized early in 2021, those at lower risk will likely have to wait until at least summer. Life is not expected to return to any semblance of normal until closer to the end of the year.

“I fully expect the fall of 2021 to be fine,” said uOttawa epidemiologist Raywat Deonandan. “We probably will still be wearing masks and having some restrictions, but we are going to have a somewhat regular Christmas next year.”

There is plenty to be optimistic about, starting with the speed and efficacy of the first vaccines, from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna.

But experts warn the immunization campaign will be complex — especially with some vaccines requiring more than one dose — and full of potential pitfalls. Among other things, the Pfizer vaccine must be stored at -70C, which requires special super freezers and dry ice.

“This is going to be an incredibly complicated and important rollout compared to others,” said Dr. Kumanan Wilson, a physician at The Ottawa Hospital and researcher at the University of Ottawa. Wilson helped develop the CANImmunize app and digital platform to track vaccines. The app is now being tested as a means of tracking vaccine safety, something that will be crucial with the COVID-19 vaccine, he said.

Like a military campaign, advance planning and clear communications will be keys to making sure things go as quickly and smoothly as possible.

Some of that advance planning is already paying off. Canada has secured more than 400 million doses of vaccine with multiple manufacturers — more per capita than any country in the world. It has also secured tends of millions of syringes and swabs. And enough freezers to store 33.5 million doses of ultra-frozen and frozen vaccines.

Canada’s National Advisory Committee on Immunization has made preliminary recommendations about who should get vaccinated first, subject to specifics of each vaccine. That includes the elderly and those whose health complications put them at highest risk, as well as front-line and essential workers.

Work is already underway to plan for big and small details of the immunization campaign, from transporting and storing vaccines, to keeping track of adverse effects and understanding the ethical implications of the strategy.

That planning involves multi-levels of government and health agencies.

In the City of Ottawa, a newly formed COVID-19 vaccine distribution task force will look at everything from where and how immunization clinics should be held, to how to ensure the city’s most vulnerable populations are immunized.

The task force will develop strategies “for the orderly and coordinated distribution of possible vaccines,” wrote Anthony Di Monte, general manager of emergency and protective services for the City of Ottawa.

Ottawa’s Medical Officer of Health Dr. Vera Etches said this week that the city does not need the help of the military with COVID-19 immunization. What the city needs is a system allowing people to register for an appointment based on their risk level, access to locations for clinics, and adequate infection prevention measures in place.

“I don’t think we would need to rely on the military. We have hundreds of immunizers and the experience of immunizing hundreds of thousands of people.”

The provincial government has, among other things, put a committee in place to work closely with local health units on COVID-19 immunization logistics, said Eastern Ontario Medical Officer of Health Dr. Paul Roumeliotis. Those logistics will include how to secure an extreme cold chain for the Pfizer vaccine, which has to be stored around -70C. Those discussions are underway, he said.

Among Roumeliotis’s concerns are having the ability to run up to six vaccination clinics at the same time — not an easy feat in a rural health region that covers a broad geographic area

“We don’t want to do Cornwall first and then Casselman a week later.”

Beyond on-the-ground logistics are questions about how to keep track of multiple vaccines requiring more than one dose, possible adverse effects and the possibility of vaccine access worsening socio-economic gaps.

Dr. Kumanon Wilson said there will need to be systems to keep track of who gets which vaccine to ensure those who need a second dose get the correct one. Proof of vaccination may also be needed for people to travel or even for work, in some cases.

“The case with COVID-19 is going to be really compelling that people need to know which vaccine they got.”

And there has to be a real-time system of tracking any adverse reactions to the vaccine, he said.

He said communications will be key to how smoothly the rollout goes, but complicated by the fact that the immunization campaign will be “dynamic”. Among other things, he said, there could be changing advice about who should get which vaccine as information becomes available.

Communications will also be essential to maintaining public acceptance of the vaccine, something that is currently relatively high in Canada.

He advises government and health officials avoid publicly shaming people who are hesitant about getting the vaccine. It doesn’t work and can turn other people off.

More questions need to be answered to fully understand how the vaccine will work, he said, including how long immunity will last.

“This may end up being a seasonal vaccine after this, like the flu.”

uOttawa virologist Earl Brown noted that there is still no understanding of whether the vaccines prevent actual infection, or just illness — meaning people might not get sick but can still shed virus and spread COVID-19.

Still, he said the speed and promise of the two leading vaccines is remarkable, considering that they were developed using a fairly new platform — mRNA.

“Everything is falling into place. Unless there is something that comes out of left field, there are no concerns at this point.” It is still early on, and more data will be revealed, he added.

Deonandan, meanwhile, said people need to continue to follow public health advice while they wait for enough people to be vaccinated.

“There is light at the end of the tunnel, but the tunnel is long and dark. Stay in you car with your seatbelt on until we get there together.”

Elizabeth Payne

https://www.msn.com/en-ca/news/canada/ottawa-prepares-for-an-unprecedented-vaccination-campaign/ar-BB1bchpN?li=AAggNb9

*Storm track could majorly impact snow totals over Ontario this weekend *

While it may not quite be record breaking, with a few hours of extra sunshine on Friday some parts of southern Ontario, including Toronto, could be nearing daily November records as temperatures soar into the mid-teens. That'll be the last of the warmth for the weekend however, as a passing cold front quickly sends those temperatures falling, with eyes on a weekend storm that has the potential to bring the first widespread accumulating snow of the season to the region. More on this tricky system setting up, and where the heaviest snow is likely, below.

WEATHER HIGHLIGHTS:

    Last mild day of the week as cold front arrives in southern Ontario Friday evening
    Brief snow squalls off Georgian Bay and Lake Huron Saturday morning, though with minimal accumulations expected
    System snow will arrive on Sunday morning bringing first widespread accumulation of the season


FRIDAY: LAST DOUBLE-DIGIT AHEAD OF COLD FRONT, LOOMING WEEKEND STORM

Thursday's well above-seasonal daytime highs will continue into Friday, putting even more distance between us and the deep freeze that marked the earlier part of the week.

Temperatures will actually be more typical of early to mid-October, with some places in line to reach the mid to upper teens, which would potentially be record-setting. The daily record high of 19°C at Toronto's Pearson airport should be safe, but if there's several hours of sunshine, we could at least near that current record.

The cooler air however, won't be far off as a cold front presses through the region by Friday night. This may trigger some brief snow squalls off Georgian Bay and Lake Huron, though with minimal accumulations expected.

SUNDAY: FIRST WIDESPREAD SNOW EVENT

As temperatures tumble and the next system approaches, a widespread swath of wet snow will develop from south to north during the morning and early afternoon hours on Sunday.

The wet snow is expected to change to rain during the late afternooon and evening across the Niagara region and along the QEW/403 corridor to Toronto.

Little to no snow accumulation is expected across most of the GTA, especially below the escarpment and near Lake Ontario, but there could still be several hours of seeing the flakes fly.

"We do also expect a wide range in accumulations across southern and central Ontario based on elevation and distance from Lake Ontario," says Weather Network meteorologist Dr. Doug Gillham. "For areas that are above the escarpment -- west and north of the GTA -- we will see widespread totals of 5-10 cm and a few spots that could top 10 cm by Monday morning."

While we have seen snow from some lake-effect set-ups already, this will be the first widespread system snow that could potentially overachieve in some areas, highly dependent on the exact track of the storm.

"It's strange to be talking about the potential for record warmth on Friday and our first widespread snow just two days later," adds Gillham.

Wet snow and rain will continue into Sunday night, with areas near Lake Ontario seeing a changeover back to some wet snow before the precipitation comes to an end completely.

The boundary between the warm and cold air will then press south of the region for early next week, and though Monday will feature a slight recovery in temperatures, Tuesday sees daytime highs not far above zero, and even below for a few communities.

Another warmup looks to take hold for the second half of the week, though not as drastic as the one that will have preceded it the previous week.

Digital Writers

https://www.msn.com/en-ca/weather/topstories/storm-track-could-majorly-impact-snow-totals-over-ontario-this-weekend/ar-BB1bcXTv?li=AAggNb9

*Cineplex agrees to shrink theatrical window to 17 days for Universal movies *

TORONTO — Cineplex Inc. has struck an agreement with Hollywood film studio Universal to shorten the exclusive theatrical release window for its movies to as little as 17 days.

The multi-year deal means Canada's largest film exhibitor has guaranteed theatrical exclusivity for three weekends on films released by Universal Pictures before the studio can choose to make them available at home on digital rental platforms.

The decision comes as cinemas face intense pressure from film studios to agree to looser restrictions on how long movies play in theatres. The factor has only been compounded by a steep decline in moviegoers in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Under the terms of the Universal agreement, films that pass US$50 million at the North American box office on opening weekend will play exclusively for 31 days, or five weekends, before Universal can choose to send them to premium on-demand, which prices rentals at $19.99 or higher.

But movies that don't meet that threshold could play Cineplex theatres for a much shorter period.

Cineplex owns its own digital rental service, Cineplex Store, which would get a cut of the revenues from each rental.

Financial details of the partnership, which includes Universal's prestige films division Focus Features, were not disclosed.

Earlier this year, Universal struck a similar deal with AMC Theatres in the United States, sending ripples through the industry as other chains faced pressure to follow in step. Cinemark, another U.S. chain, signed onto a shorter window agreement earlier this week.

Cineplex has refused for years to budge on a strict 90-day theatrical window, saying it would only screen films that committed to the three-month exclusivity period.

There have been a few exceptions, the highest-profile being a 2015 experiment with Paramount Pictures that saw low-budget horror films "Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension" and "Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse" playing for a shortened window that was based partly on their box-office performance.

The trial run fizzled almost as quickly as it started when both films underperformed their box-office projections.

At the time, Cineplex president and CEO Ellis Jacob said the test of shorter windows was about "niche movies" and he didn't anticipate it extending to blockbuster films. But the new agreement with Universal covers both major releases and smaller films.

The studio is home to some of the film industry's most valuable franchises, including "The Fast & the Furious," "Jurassic Park" and the Minions, and has a distribution pact with horror brand Blumhouse, makers of "Get Out."

This time around, the head of Cineplex expressed confidence that Canadians still value the theatrical experience.

“We are pleased to work alongside like-minded partners such as Universal, a studio that respects the theatrical window and is committed to the sustainable long-term health of the theatrical ecosystem," he said in a statement.

For years, Cineplex has refused to support films from most streaming companies, including Netflix, because they refused to commit to its 90-day window.

Some of those rejected Netflix films, including "The Irishman" and "Uncut Gems," went on to successful runs at Canada's independent cinemas, offering the small businesses a rare opportunity to screen first-run titles with big-name stars.

The partnership between Cineplex and Universal could change that. If the big movie chain agrees to welcome Netflix and other streaming companies into its multiplexes, the independent theatres could lose access to some of their biggest draws.

Follow @dfriend on Twitter.

This report by The Canadian Press was first published Nov. 20, 2020.

David Friend, The Canadian Press

https://www.msn.com/en-ca/entertainment/movies/cineplex-agrees-to-shrink-theatrical-window-to-17-days-for-universal-movies/ar-BB1bcE9d?li=AAggNb9

*'Less is more:' Restaurants pandemic-proofing menus to survive the second wave*

HALIFAX — The menu at the Stubborn Goat Gastropub in downtown Halifax will always have a classic burger and gourmet mac n' cheese.

But the slightly more eccentric dishes, peppered with unique ingredients, might be harder to come by these days.

"We reduced the size of our menus right across the board," says Joe McGuinness, co-owner of Legendary Hospitality, which operates three restaurants in the coastal city.

"We took the best of the best and put it on the menu."

It's part of a trend at restaurants across the country.

In a bid to survive the second wave, eateries are pandemic-proofing their menus by offering customers top sellers while deleting the less popular items for now.

"Less is more on menus is a good idea right now," says Martin Vezina, a spokesman for the Quebec Restaurant Association.

"Restaurants are figuring out what they do well, and what works for delivery, and cutting the rest."

It's not a panacea. Restaurateurs are tinkering with nearly every facet of their operations in an effort to stay afloat, including operating hours, staffing levels, delivery packaging, contactless payment systems, website upgrades, patio enclosures and the installation of Plexiglas dividers. Other changes include grocery sales and the retrofitting of bathrooms with touchless toilets and faucets.

"There's not a magic bullet," says Luc Erjavec, Atlantic Canada vice-president with Restaurants Canada. "It's about doing a number of things differently to survive."

Yet changes to menus are among the most visible ways eateries are adapting to the pandemic.

While generally based on the popularity of a dish, menu edits are also influenced by what travels well for take out and delivery — the sole source of revenue for restaurants in regions where indoor dining is off limits.

"During the lockdown, we did remove items from our menu that didn't make sense to offer for delivery," says Dan Joseph, owner of Darrell's Restaurant in Halifax.

"Like lasagna, for example, that's not something that people will order much for delivery … it doesn't hold up particularly well."

Indeed, Darrell's is credited by some as getting food delivery down to a science.

The milkshake-and-hamburger institution is using bamboo and sugarcane containers, biodegradable cutlery and paper straws.

Joseph says the restaurant is currently testing three paper bags. He says they don't "sweat" like a plastic bag, and can be stapled shut to ensure they aren't tampered with by a driver.

""We want to make sure we get it right," he says. "Once that bag is in place, it's foolproof."

Smaller menus have additional benefits, including lower inventory levels in kitchens, which reduces potential losses in the event another full lockdown is ordered.

"You want to reduce your inventory because that was one of the significant losses that hit all restaurants back in March," McGuinness says. "We discarded tens of thousands of dollars of inventory."

Still, even though restaurants are streamlining menus to curb costs, diners may not always notice.

Meagan Andrews, the head chef at the Stubborn Goat, says the menu was designed so ingredients could be used in several meals.

"Our menu still looks big, but if you look closely a lot of the ingredients are used in multiple dishes," she says. "For example, half the ingredients in a mac n' cheese might be used on a pizza, and that cuts down on our inventory and prep time."

The chef was also inspired by the mood of the pandemic when developing the menu.

"When we reopened after the lockdown, we took the opportunity to take comfort classic dishes and recreate them," Andrews says. "People want something they're familiar with, but elevated in creative way."

Meanwhile, it's not just the menu selection that's been altered at the restaurant, but the medium of the menu itself.

Rather than receive a physical menu when you sit down, the eatery's tables are equipped with a type of bar-code called a QR code.

"You scan the QR code on your phone, and the menu pops up," McGuinness says. "We don't want people touching a menu and then passing it on to somebody else. This eliminates the need to wipe down shared menus or print new menus."

Yet while many restaurants are trying new things to survive the pandemic, Erjavec with Restaurants Canada says it remains a work in progress.

"This is unchartered territory and things are still changing every day," he says. "Restaurants are using a lot of trial and error to survive."

This report by The Canadian Press was first published Nov. 20, 2020.

Brett Bundale, The Canadian Press

https://www.msn.com/en-ca/money/topstories/less-is-more-restaurants-pandemic-proofing-menus-to-survive-the-second-wave/ar-BB1bd5H6?li=AAggNb9

*Defence bill in danger over Confederate-named military bases*

WASHINGTON — An annual defence policy measure that has passed Congress every year since the Kennedy administration is in danger of cratering next month over a move by Democrats to rename military bases, such as Fort Benning, that are named after Confederate officers.

President Donald Trump opposes renaming bases like Fort Hood and has threatened to veto the popular measure over the provision, which was added to both the House and Senate versions of the so-called defence authorization bill this summer.

Republicans are vowing they will not send the broader bill to Trump if it includes language requiring bases named after Confederate officers to be renamed. Trump used the debate this summer to appeal to Southern voters nostalgic about the Confederacy, and those appeals remain relevant now due to two Senate runoff elections in Georgia that will determine control of the chamber during the first two years of President-elect Joe Biden's tenure.

“I am concerned that there is at least the potential that political concerns, especially with the Georgia runoffs, are going to play a bigger role," said top House Armed Services Committee Republican Mac Thornberry of Texas. “I have no doubt that we can reach an agreement. The question is whether the politics above us will allow us to."

Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman James Inhofe, R-Okla., is strongly backing Trump, aides involved in the talks say. But Democrats, who won GOP support in both the House and Senate to force the renaming of the bases, vow they will not back down. Typically, when both House and Senate versions of legislation contain comparable provisions, the default position is to leave the language in the final product. The differences between the House and Senate provisions are relatively modest.

“It's Senate language that we want to agree to," said House Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith, D-Wash. “So there shouldn't be controversy here." He called Trump “a little bit erratic at the moment."

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., says the names must be changed.

“It is imperative that the conference report include provisions that secure this essential priority," said Pelosi. “Our bases should reflect our highest ideals as Americans."

The bill has to pass next month to avoid breaking a 59-year streak of enacting the annual measure, which sets policy across the Pentagon and puts lawmakers on record behind a 3% automatic pay raise starting Jan. 1, among its other provisions.

“Look, the defence bill is really important," Smith said, expressing hope that Republicans would relent.

White House chief of staff Mark Meadows has even floated the idea of a tradeoff in which Trump would sign the legislation containing the Democratic language in exchange for repealing so-called Section 230, a legal shield for social media outlets like Facebook that protects websites from liability for content posted on their sites. The New York Times first reported Meadows' attempt at deal making, which was confirmed by a Democratic aide who requested anonymity because the negotiations are occurring behind closed doors.

Both the House and Senate defence measures passed by veto-proof margins but GOP leaders want to avoid the chances of a veto coming to pass. Either way, the issue seems to be a loser for Georgia's Republican senators, David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler. Breaking with Trump to override the veto could mean a loss in support among core GOP voters, while standing in favour of keeping the base names could drain support from independents.

This story first moved November 19, 2020. It was updated November 20, 2020.. The Associated Press erroneously reported that failure to pass the legislation could hold up a pay raise for the military. The 3 per cent yearly pay raise for the military is automatic.

Andrew Taylor, The Associated Press

https://www.msn.com/en-ca/news/world/defence-bill-in-danger-over-confederate-named-military-bases/ar-BB1bbEPl?li=AAggNb9


